README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# textures

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R build
status](https://github.com/hypertidy/textures/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hypertidy/textures/actions)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of textures is to utilize texture mapping in rgl to work with
images in different coordinate systems and mapped onto arbitrary shapes.

There’s a couple of functions in the package, with ongoing work to
explore examples and align them to package functionality.

The goal is for this package to illustrate texture mapping capability in
rgl with *core techniques familiar to R users*, and with minimal *resort
to specialist code*. When specialist code is required it will be brought
out explicitly and explained in a single-step.

Very WIP

## Installation

Only for dev interest.

``` r
## install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("hypertidy/textures")
```

## Example

A Mercator raster on a single quad. Zoom in and out but no translate or
pivot (it’s disabled).

Maps an image onto a quad from a PNG file. Run this code and zoom in and
out.

``` r
library(textures)
## create a temporary file and write an image to it
tfile <- tempfile(fileext = ".png")
png::writePNG(ga_topo$img/255, tfile)

## create a quad *canvas*, a single 4-corner shape floating in 3D
## (and use the PNG file as the material to texture that canvas)
quad0 <- quad(texfile = tfile)

## set the geography of the canvas, this is trivial because we have a rectangular
## scale that applies directly as a scaling of x and y
quad0$vb[1L,] <- scales::rescale(quad0$vb[1,], to = ga_topo$extent[c("xmin", "xmax")])
quad0$vb[2L,] <- scales::rescale(quad0$vb[2L,], to = ga_topo$extent[c("ymin", "ymax")])

## plot it in 3D 
rgl::open3d()
rgl::plot3d(quad0, specular = "black")
set_scene()  ## this sets the plot up to appear like a 2D image
```

![texture map on a quad](man/figures/readme_ga000.png)

Maps are fun but R is not just about *geography*.

``` r
library(ggplot2)
library(rgl)
## create a plot and save it
g <- ggplot(mpg, aes(displ, fill = drv)) + 
  geom_histogram(binwidth = 0.5) + 
  facet_wrap(~drv, ncol = 1)
tfile <- tempfile(fileext = ".png")
ggsave(tfile, g)


library(textures)
quad0 <- quad(texfile = tfile, depth = 7)

ex <- -20
## flip it (fixme later)
quad0$vb[1L, ] <- 1-quad0$vb[1L, ]
quad0$vb[2L, ] <- 1-quad0$vb[2L, ]

quad0$vb[1L,] <- scales::rescale(quad0$vb[1,], to = c(-1, 1) * ex)
quad0$vb[2L,] <- scales::rescale(quad0$vb[2L,], to = c(-1, 1) * ex)

f <- function(x, y) { r <- sqrt(x^2+y^2); 10 * sin(r)/r }  ## ?persp
quad0$vb[3L, ] <- f(quad0$vb[1L,], quad0$vb[2L,])

quad0 <- addNormals(quad0)  ## we are still in rgl scope, so everything is available
## plot it in 3D 
rgl::open3d()
rgl::plot3d(quad0, specular = "black")
rgl::aspect3d(1, 1, .3)
#set_scene(phi = 15, interactive = TRUE)
par3d(windowRect  = c(0, 0, 1024, 1024))
```

![texture map on a quad](man/figures/readme_gg000.png)

## Re-map projections

*see ./rough-examples.R* WIP

  - Illustrate folly of low-density primitives for reprojection
  - Explore the use of primitive shapes for placing image fragments
    arbitrarily
  - Create a generalized surface in arbitrary map projection and remap
    the image losslessly

-----

## Code of Conduct

Please note that the textures project is released with a [Contributor
Code of
Conduct](https://contributor-covenant.org/version/2/0/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

Commit message:

add tests that source rough examples

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# textures

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R build
status](https://github.com/hypertidy/textures/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hypertidy/textures/actions)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of textures is to utilize texture mapping in rgl to work with
images in different coordinate systems and mapped onto arbitrary shapes.

There’s a couple of functions in the package, with ongoing work to
explore examples and align them to package functionality.

The goal is for this package to illustrate texture mapping capability in
rgl with *core techniques familiar to R users*, and with minimal *resort
to specialist code*. When specialist code is required it will be brought
out explicitly and explained in a single-step.

Very WIP

## Installation

Only for dev interest.

``` r
## install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("hypertidy/textures")
```

## Example

A Mercator raster on a single quad. Zoom in and out but no translate or
pivot (it’s disabled).

Maps an image onto a quad from a PNG file. Run this code and zoom in and
out.

``` r
library(textures)
## create a temporary file and write an image to it
tfile <- tempfile(fileext = ".png")
png::writePNG(ga_topo$img/255, tfile)

## create a quad *canvas*, a single 4-corner shape floating in 3D
## (and use the PNG file as the material to texture that canvas)
quad0 <- quad(texfile = tfile)

## set the geography of the canvas, this is trivial because we have a rectangular
## scale that applies directly as a scaling of x and y
quad0$vb[1L,] <- scales::rescale(quad0$vb[1,], to = ga_topo$extent[c("xmin", "xmax")])
quad0$vb[2L,] <- scales::rescale(quad0$vb[2L,], to = ga_topo$extent[c("ymin", "ymax")])

## plot it in 3D 
rgl::open3d()
rgl::plot3d(quad0, specular = "black")
set_scene()  ## this sets the plot up to appear like a 2D image
```

![texture map on a quad](man/figures/readme_ga000.png)

Maps are fun but R is not just about *geography*.

``` r
library(ggplot2)
library(rgl)
## create a plot and save it
g <- ggplot(mpg, aes(displ, fill = drv)) + 
  geom_histogram(binwidth = 0.5) + 
  facet_wrap(~drv, ncol = 1)
tfile <- tempfile(fileext = ".png")
ggsave(tfile, g)


library(textures)
quad0 <- quad(texfile = tfile, depth = 7)

ex <- -20
## flip it (fixme later)
quad0$vb[1L, ] <- 1-quad0$vb[1L, ]
quad0$vb[2L, ] <- 1-quad0$vb[2L, ]

quad0$vb[1L,] <- scales::rescale(quad0$vb[1,], to = c(-1, 1) * ex)
quad0$vb[2L,] <- scales::rescale(quad0$vb[2L,], to = c(-1, 1) * ex)

f <- function(x, y) { r <- sqrt(x^2+y^2); 10 * sin(r)/r }  ## ?persp
quad0$vb[3L, ] <- f(quad0$vb[1L,], quad0$vb[2L,])

quad0 <- addNormals(quad0)  ## we are still in rgl scope, so everything is available
## plot it in 3D 
rgl::open3d()
rgl::plot3d(quad0, specular = "black")
rgl::aspect3d(1, 1, .3)
#set_scene(phi = 15, interactive = TRUE)
par3d(windowRect  = c(0, 0, 1024, 1024))
```

![texture map on a quad](man/figures/readme_gg000.png)

## Re-map projections

*see ./rough-examples.R* WIP

  - **rough-examples\#1**: See Mercator map above.
  - **rough-examples\#2.**: Illustrate folly of low-density primitives
    for reprojection
  - **rough-examples\#3.**: Create a generalized surface in arbitrary
    map projection and remap the image losslessly
  - **rough-examples\#4.**: Explore the use of primitive shapes for
    placing image fragments arbitrarily

-----

## Code of Conduct

Please note that the textures project is released with a [Contributor
Code of
Conduct](https://contributor-covenant.org/version/2/0/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.
